2022 TRENDS
Automation
Accelerates
Automation is expanding faster
and further than ever—see how
you can take advantage.w

Automation’s momentum only
keeps growing and growing.
Make sure you’re up to speed.
Automation is progressing like never before—in terms both of the technology itself and in the ways
it’s delivering new growth and profit.
To take a look at what’s ahead, we’ve gathered insights from analysts, partners, customers, and
our own marketing, sales, product, partnership, and customer success teams—honing all this info
down to 10 key trends in automation. Together, they present a picture of the years to come, the many
possibilities automation presents, and the steps you need to take to take advantage.

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   2w

Where automation
is heading—in 2022
and beyond.
It’s coming into its own as essential enterprise technology—with robotic process
automation (RPA) at the center.
It’s expanding its role in the stack—and in the way people work.
It’s winning over new champions in the C-suite.
It’s introducing innovations that will transform the technology and the industry.
It’s laying the foundation of a booming ecosystem.

Across every dimension—by every measurement—automation is accelerating.

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   3TREND #1
CIOs take the reins
on automation.
With automation now the top tech trend, CIOs will step up to raise its OUR ADVICE TO CIOs
technology, strategy, and governance to the enterprise level. Get started on your enterprise automation
More and more, automation has become a top priority in the C-suite and the boardroom. But enterprise strategy now.
leaders want to automate the right way, ensuring that automation investments fully deliver on their
potential to drive digital transformation, agility, efficiency, and revenue.  Automation will likely be a critical item on your
To that end, many boards are now handing down “automation mandates” to properly plan 2022 agenda, so get ahead of the game. Some
the organization’s automation strategy—and CIOs are the ones being asked to take the lead in of your key tasks:
determining how the technology will be introduced across the enterprise. ■ Choosing an automation platform that
To develop (and execute) this strategy, CIOs will first need to wrap their heads around the many provides enterprise-grade scale, governance,
disparate, disconnected automation initiatives that may already exist within the organization— and security
and how they can best be centralized and secured.
■ Identifying and prioritizing the biggest
56% of large enterprises currently have  15%  opportunities automation can deliver to
your organization
4 or more simultaneous automation initiatives. have 10 or more.1 ■ Building out automation skills and
capabilities across the enterprise
With these new mandates, the role of the CIO has expanded: beyond driving efficiencies, CIOs will now ■ Connecting islands of automation within
be expected to drive revenue—from sales and marketing, to online ordering and customer call centers. your organization

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   4TREND #2
In the automation platform
convergence battle, RPA wins.
OUR ADVICE TO CIOs & AUTOMATION COEs ‘RPA-plus’ platforms will push to become the go-to in automation, integrating
Choose a foundation that will best serve capabilities from adjacent business process technologies.
your needs. RPA. BPA. iPaaS. LCAP. AI. There are plenty of types of automation out there. Each has something
different to offer—and each would like to be the primary automation platform around which all others
Deciding on a core automation technology is are centered.
critical, but that doesn’t make it easy. As you The battle is fiercer than ever, but when the dust clears, we predict that robot process automation
start to make your decision: (RPA) will come out on top—and not just because it's what we do at UiPath! According to Gartner, RPA
■ Map out all the automation technologies was the fastest-growing enterprise software in both 2019 and 2020, with revenues increasing 38.9%
currently used in your enterprise—both between those years.2
where and why. And it’s no wonder why. Modern end-to-end RPA platforms offer crucial features like integrated
management and execution, enterprise-grade governance, low-code/no-code build environments, and
■ Devise a strategy for reducing fragmentation support for rapid scaling. Plus, RPA has led the way in UI automation—a critical technology most other
across initiatives, centralizing around a  platforms are still playing catch-up on.
core platform.
78% of surveyed organizations have chosen RPA
■ Make sure your chosen platform can meet  platforms for their intelligent automation efforts.3
as many of your automation initiatives
as possible.
This isn’t to say that RPA can do everything every other platform can. But give it time. “RPA-plus” platforms
are already coming into play, rapidly introducing the capabilities of adjacent platforms and making it
easier for organizations to integrate existing technologies. With more use cases and more tools and
capabilities for developers, organizations can increase automation's impact across their enterprise.
This should only cement RPA’s position as the core automation technology moving forward.

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   5TREND #3
Automation moves to the top of
the enterprise stack and powers
a new engagement layer.
Robots, not people, will weave together applications, systems, and software— OUR ADVICE TO CIOs & CTOs
allowing us to totally reimagine processes in the process.
Today, the average large enterprise uses more than 170 different applications. These applications may Think automations, not applications.
work beautifully on their own—but they don’t necessarily play well with others. As a result, employees The automation layer is a wholly new animal.
spend far too much of their time bridging the gap: moving information between applications, for What do you need to do to bring it to life?
instance, and ensuring the consistency of that data.
In 2022 and beyond, we’ll see leading-edge enterprises address this problem by adding an ■ Build out robust, reusable automation
automation layer to the top of their application stack. This new automation layer will contain object libraries for frequently used actions
connections and reusable components that can link applications and systems of records— in your core systems of record.
along with key governance, maintenance, and developer capabilities. ■ Establish a new step in the process
By reusing components from this layer, teams can build, test, and execute automations faster—while development lifecycle to determine whether
ensuring fast connections, reliable communication, and dependable data consistency across systems. a process can be driven by an automation
This not only frees employees from boring, burdensome work—it also frees the organization to rather than an application.
establish new processes built on a foundation of automation.
■ Back your automation layer with technology
that allows for centralized governance,
By reusing automation Complete management, and testing.
components across applications Cut business application test automations
and QA/testing teams, a UiPath deployment by 90% 3-5x faster
customer was able to:

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   6TREND #4
Just-in-time, task-based
workflows emerge as
alternatives to business-
application-based workflows.
The first virtual assembly lines will deliver “work-as-needed” to  OUR ADVICE TO CIOs & AUTOMATION COEs
employees’ desktops.
Today, work happens in applications. A whole bunch of separate applications. A user might pull data Get comfortable with task-based workflows.
from Salesforce, dump it into Excel, then process it in Workday. It’s a workflow, all right, but not a very It’s not time to totally abandon application-
efficient one. Now, though, we’re beginning to see the rise of an entirely new type of work. Instead of based workflows, but you should start thinking
employees going to all those applications, tasks now come to the employees—a virtual assembly line about what task-focused work will look like.
of just-in-time tasks, brought to you by robots.
By removing apps from the equation, work is less complex and fragmented, so less time is wasted. ■ Set a goal for piloting at least 5 just-in-time,
No more opening, closing, and navigating a slew of applications. No more trying to work across task-centric workflows by the end of
applications—and making sure that that work actually worked. No more struggling to learn new or this year.
updated applications. Instead, employees have exactly what they need to do the work they need,
when they need to, all in one place.
The manufacturing assembly line revolutionized the way physical work was performed and what it
could produce. We believe that virtual assembly lines could have the same impact on digital work.

By 2024, it’s predicted that
25% of employee-facing app development will be replaced
by the codeless development of just-in-time tasks.4

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   7TREND #5
Automation Centers of
Excellence step in to solve
the AI deployment problem.
OUR ADVICE TO CIOs, AI & ANALYTICS COEs,  CoEs will help organizations get AI over the hump—driving greater success
& AUTOMATION COEs rates and better ROI.
Centers of Excellence—unite! Investments in artificial intelligence (AI) are growing by leaps and bounds. The return on those
investments? Not so much yet. One major roadblock: actually getting AI models out of labs and into
To make the most of AI, you need to make the the workplace.
most of automation. That’s why it’s critical for
automation and AI/analytics CoEs to put their 1/5
heads together on how best to deploy the two 90%
■ To encourage collaboration, identify 64% of IT and AI practitioners say of their AI models
technologies in tandem.  it takes at least a month to have
implement a new AI model.5 going unused.5
opportunities where you have powerful, but
undeployed, AI models that could deliver big Now, though, more and more organizations are realizing automation can help them cross the last
business impact—in customer service, the mile with AI. Ready-made workflows can easily bring models into front-line decision-making and
supply chain, wherever. analysis, and new capabilities like drag-and-drop model insertion and continuous automated model
improvement can make AI deployment simpler than ever.
■ Give automation CoEs the freedom to  As automation’s AI track record gets better and better, it's encouraging AI and analytics groups to
use modern, advanced automation team up with automation CoEs to get AI in employees’ hands faster. In fact, in some enterprises,
platforms to rapidly deploy and manage  automation CoEs are taking over AI deployment completely.
AI-enriched workflows.

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   8TREND #6
Semantic automation
revolutionizes RPA.
The industry will make major strides in bringing “AI inside” to make OUR ADVICE TO CEOs, CIOs, &
automation faster, easier, and more resilient.  AUTOMATION COEs
Today, even with drag-and-drop, low-code platforms, building a complex automation can be a drawn- Set yourself up to be an early adopter.
out process. That’s because developers have to tell the robot every single step to take and every rule
to follow. “Move this here, open this, extract that…” It’s a lot. Semantic automation is still an emerging
But with semantic automation, the robot will already know the rules and the context, the patterns  technology, but it’s one you should keep on
and the relationships. “Oh, I’ve seen this process, so I know how to complete it.” “Hmm, I need this your radar, so you can get on board early
specific info—OK, I know where to find it.” With this sort of contextual understanding, developers— when the time comes.
or even business users—will be able to ask a robot to complete a task and let it figure out how. ■ Closely monitor advances and
improvements in the technology—what’s
Pattern-based models are  possible and who’s leading the charge.
2x as effective  ■ Check out early use cases, like UiPath Forms
at finding credit card fraud
anomalies as rules-based models.6 AI, which can process forms and documents
that have similar formats, even if the robot
has never seen them before.
We believe that semantic automation will be a quantum leap forward in the industry, freeing up more
time and putting automation in more people’s hands. At UiPath, we’ve already surmounted some of
the first hurdles in realizing the technology, with advances in AI, document processing, and computer
vision that will help form the foundation of semantic automation.

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   9TREND #7
The desire for flexibility in
delivery options spurs cloud-
based architectural innovation.
Containerization and cloud-native will become the new standard for the OUR ADVICE TO CTOs & CIOs
delivery of both SaaS and non-SaaS automation.
Part of embracing automation is deciding how you’ll actually get your hands on the technology.  Keep tracking that delivery.
On-premises, cloud, hybrid—today’s market demands flexibility; no one wants to be locked into  New delivery innovations can reduce
a particular delivery model. costs—and make it easier to keep your
So, automation providers are increasingly embracing cloud-native architectures that leverage platform up-to-date and operating at
containerization and microservices to deliver various platform capabilities however and wherever peak performance. So, make sure you
the customer wants them. Customers get the automation they want today—and can easily swap keep up with the industry advances!
approaches tomorrow—without having to change procedures or reeducate employees. And with  ■ Find a platform that will continue to
these architectures, even on-premises customers now have access to cloud-like flexibility, timeliness, innovate across every delivery method.
and easy updates. You might be using SaaS today, but new
In 2022, expect additional delivery innovations focused on making it even easier to install, manage, requirements could bring you back on-
and upgrade on-premises automation platforms—and reducing total cost of ownership (TCO) for every premises—and you want tech with the
delivery method. flexibility to do both well.

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   10TREND #8
Automation finds a new
C-suite champion: the Chief
Sustainability Officer.
OUR ADVICE TO CSOs & CIOs CSOs will team up with CIOs to use automation for the greater good.
Team up to tackle sustainability. Sustainability has never been a greater concern—which is giving it a much greater role in the workplace.
We’re now experiencing the rise of the Chief Sustainability Officer, who works across the organization
Technology like automation can help you do to improve the company’s environmental impact. And as these CSOs endeavor to achieve their crucial
the greatest good smarter, faster, and more goals, they’re discovering an ally in the CIO—also increasingly tasked with sustainability initiatives—and
effectively. But that means getting a real a useful tool in automation.
handle on that technology and its potential.

■ CSOs: Develop a close partnership with your Today, there are over 95 CSOs in 24% of CIOs say they're responsible for
CIO and IT heads; they’ll be critical in helping the Fortune 500.7 implementing sustainability programs.8
you identify and implement the
right solutions.
■ CIOs: Stay informed! Make sure you’re Automation can support mission-critical fact-gathering, monitoring, and measurement—making
aware of emerging opportunities and best them simpler, faster, and more accurate—so initiatives start (and progress) the right way. But
practices for using technology to address automation can also have a more direct impact: for instance, automating data centers to power
social and environmental issues. down during periods of inactivity can significantly reduce electricity use. (We ourselves cut cloud
compute usage by 65%!9) Or it can create efficiencies that reduce paper consumption. Or uncover
new opportunities to reduce environmental impact across the supply chain.

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   11TREND #9
HR teams prepare for their
next big challenge: managing a
human-digital workforce.
Chief Human Resource Officers (CHROs) will start planning for a workplace OUR ADVICE TO CHROs & HR TEAMS
where people and robots work as one.  Start planning.
Within the next 5 years, hybrid human-digital workforces will be the new normal. People will work (Or at least start planning to plan.)
side-by-side with virtual robotic assistants—sharing tasks, passing work back and forth, collaborating.
But getting there isn’t simply a matter of dropping in the technology. It’s going to take real change The shift to human-digital work is happening—
management—changing the hearts, minds, skills, behavior, and even roles of employees. get out in front of it by envisioning and preparing
Forward-thinking HR executives have already recognized this looming challenge and have begun  for it right now.
to put together multi-year plans for the transition: Which jobs will be sunsetting? What new jobs will ■ Map out which jobs are likely to change,
take their place? How can they best train employees to work with the new technology? What skills  emerge, and phase out.
will teams need to learn or improve or replace? Who should they hire, and who should they redeploy?
Business leaders now predict they’ll have to retrain one-third of their workforce in the face of the ■ Identify and define the skills needed for
changes automation will bring.3 HR will be the ones driving this transformation—if your HR leaders tomorrow, and the means you’ll need to
haven’t started planning for it already, they likely will soon. develop them across your organization.
■ Develop a robust change management
Up to  …only to be replaced by     plan to smooth automation adoption and
85M lower-value jobs will higher-value maximize its impact.
be lost by 2025… 97M jobs.10

2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   12TREND #10
Growth explodes across the
automation ecosystem.
It’s not just automation that’s booming—it’s all the technologies and work OUR ADVICE TO WOULD-BE
around it. ECOSYSTEM CONTRIBUTORS
The automation market is larger and growing faster than you might realize. And that’s because it’s Stake your claim boldly and early.
not just about automation platform providers alone—it’s about an entire ecosystem of all the other There’s no better time to enter the automation
elements that make automation possible. Those delivering the hardware and software. IT integration ecosystem—automation is on the rise, and
services. Custom app developers. Consultants to help businesses get more out of the technology. businesses are ready to make the leap, but
And, of course, with a bigger market comes bigger opportunities. Take UiPath’s ecosystem. In 2022, they need support on their journey. How can
IDC predicts that our ecosystem will increase by $2.3B—46% growth over where we were in 2021.  you help?
By 2025, they predict it will value at $16.4B—that’s a total cumulative opportunity of $51.2B.11
With opportunities like these, it’s no wonder everyone’s trying to get in on the action. Accenture ■ Be prepared for a lot of competition and a
recently announced it will add 10,000 automation specialists by 2023. Consulting firm PwC recently lot of noise in the market. Make sure you
integrated UiPath into PwC Perform, their proprietary operational improvement methodology and hone your products and services to address
management system, so it can quickly and easily deliver automation to clients. And our own UiPath real needs—then carefully target your
partner network now tops 4,700 (and growing). The automation ecosystem is primed and full of audience with clear messaging about what it
potential—all you have to do is jump on board. is you have to offer.
The biggest revenue opportunities in the automation ecosystem?11 ■ Build strong relationships with automation
platforms, so that you’re the one they want
Business Services Add-on Software IT Services to work with and recommend.
to support organizational including apps for including systems
change, functional training,  specific departments and integration, custom app
and strategy development processes; security software development, training,
and operating systems; and and end-user support
app development tools
2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   13ABOUT UIPATH

UiPath (NYSE: PATH) has a vision to deliver the fully automated enterprise™, one where companies use
automation to unlock their greatest potential. UiPath offers an end-to-end platform for automation,
combining the leading robotic process automation (RPA) solution with a full suite of capabilities that enable
every organization to rapidly scale digital business operations.

For more information, visit uipath.com

A leader in the 2021 Gartner®
Magic Quadrant™ for RPA
Get the report
A Forrester Wave Leader for
Robotic Process Automation,
Q1 2021
Get the report
A Leader in the IDC
MarketScape for Worldwide
Robotic Process Automation
Software 2021-2022
Get the report
Everest Group Robotic
Process Automation Products
PEAK Matrix®  2021
Get the report

© UiPath, Inc. All rights reserved.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings
or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all
warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Robotic Process
Automation, by Saikat Ray, Arthur Villa, Naved Rashid, Paul Vincent, Keith Guttridge, Melanie Alexander, July 2021.
[standard US copyright line]  A Leader in the Inaugural IDC MarketScape: Worldwide RPA Software 2021-2022 2022 Trends: Automation Accelerates  |   141. Gartner, Top Strategic Technology Trends for 2022, 2021. 2. Gartner, Market Share Analysis: Robotic Process Automation, Worldwide, 2020, May 2021. 3. Deloitte, Automation with intelligence: Pursuing organisation-wide reimagination, 2020.
4. IDC, FutureScape: Worldwide Developer and DevOps 2022 Predictions, October 2021. 5. RunAI, State of Infrastructure Survey, 2021. 6. Brighterion, How do AI models compare to rules-based decisioning?, September 2020. 7. Weinreb Group,
The Chief Sustainability Officer 10 Years Later: The rise of ESG in the C-Suite, March 2021. 8. Gartner, The Role of the CIO and Technology in the Enterprise Sustainability and ESG Endeavor, 2021. 9. UiPath, It’s Time to Automate Your IT Ecosystem,
2021. 10. World Economic Forum, How intelligent automation can power sustainable economies, September 2021. 11. IDC, The Economic Impact of UiPath Robotic Process Automation, September 2021.

© UiPath, Inc. 2021